# BIOL668_RJones_Final
Final Project for RJones in BIOL668

Single-cell RNAseq analysis of tumor-infiltrating immune cells in a patient with EBV+ Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma

If you want to do the analysis yourself, you must do the following: 1) Download the 'GSM4929846_NPC_SC_1802_Tumor_count.csv.gz' file from here: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE162025 (renamed to ''GSE162025_Tumor_count_A.csv' in this file)2) Untar and gunzip the file3) In Excel with your .csv: YOU MUST MAKE SURE YOUR EXCEL DOES NOT IMPORT VALUES TO DATES. This can affect genes like 'MARC1', 'MARCH1', 'MARC2', 'MARCH2', etc. You must insert a blank cell in A1 to make sure that your all of your columns (unique cells) line up with your gene counts. Make sure the first column does not line up with your gene names.4) In TextEdit (or similar program), insert a comma (',') at the beginning of your .csv file.5) After doing either 3 or 4, you can import into R.6) Note, this file will not knit as is (takes a very long time during the singleR cell annotation step and will time out)

Figures: 
(Description copy and pasted from file)
#Figure 1: Elbow Plot with Standard Deviation of Principal Components#The figure generated by the code below will show the standard deviation of the variation caused by each the principal components up until a specified number of dimensions. Where the "elbow" of the plot dips is where it is the best to cutoff. The authors in the original paper used 20 dimensions/PCs for their analyses, which we can see was the right choice with the Elbow Plot below. 

#Figure 2: UMAP plot of Cell Clusters#The UMAP plot below will show cells clustered together based upon their shared variation. This variation is caused by sets of genes which in turn are based upon their cellular identity, i.e. different cell types will express different sets of genes. More similar cell types will cluster closer together than less similar cell types.

#Figure 3: Doublet Visualization for our scRNAseq data

#Figure 4: Reference cell type annotation of cells infiltrating a patient NPC tumor

#Figure 5: Cell type proportions of the tumor microenvironment of an EBV+ NPC tumor

#Figure 6: Cell Clusters Annotated Manually by Variable Genes#Plotting UMAP with our clusters annotated by the genes (manually) INTERPRET WITH CAUTION

#Figure 7: Expression of immune cell features #PDCD1 & CTLA4 are cell checkpoint proteins and will suppress cells of the immune system, leading to immune cell dysregulation and a lack of effective immune resposne. GZMK & CD8A are markers for activated (T-cells) cells and CD8+ T-cells specifically. MS4A1 and IGHG1 are markers for B-cells and IgG1 + B-cells 

#Figure 8: Expression patterns of exhausted CD8+ T-cells#Alternative showing overlapping expression of CD8A and LAG3, another immune checkpoint molecule

#Figure 9: Differential gene expression heatmap by cell cluster#Showing a heatmap of the top 6 differentially expressed genes for each cluster 
